Hey welcome back.
So in this lecture we're going to have a look at modifying our selection and how you can see here with
the image on the right.
We have the outline of the sword the selected and we can expand that selection to get an image like
one on the right where we then fill in that surround with even a rejon Shadow or in this case a gradient
fill across.
Behind the sword.
Another example that we can do if we start to modify our selections is take the sword again and then
create a border around our sword.
Now this isn't quite as fluid as drawing it by hand as you can see it's a bit more jagged.
However it is a great starting point and it will also enable us to draw some perfect circles.
If you need an a circular outline or indeed a border around your project as well.
So let's get going now.
Overing guimpe and explore modifying our selections.
Okay so welcome back over into game and the first thing that we need to do here is just make sure that
we've got an image open so we can work on it.
So it's go ahead create a new image thirty two by thirty two.
And let's zoom in so we can see everything now that we've done this we can start to play with the selection
tools.
Now at this point in time I'd like to introduce you to two new selection tools because we they have
attachments on them that we can use to modify at the actual selection itself as we've created it.
Those two are the first two items in our tool box.
The rectangular select and the Ellipse select there are available also in the Tools menu under selection
tools and we have here rectangle select an ellipse select and you can also see if you want to you can
use the R and E keys respectively to select those stores.
So let's go ahead now and select a rectangle select.
Now as always with the tool options there are a series of one specific and generic to the selection
tools.
We've got the different modes that we've already explored previously anti-aliasing currently has a tic
against it and it's greyed out that prevents us from actually turning that off.
We have feathered edges feathered edges make the edges slightly blurring here essentially rounded corners.
Well if you've rounded a corner on a square essentially it eventually becomes a circle as a square of
course I mean a rectangle.
In this case because it's the rectangle tool expand from the centre is really useful more so for the
Ellipse tool than for the square.
But with that turned on instead of you starting from an edge and pulling it across as we'll see in a
few moments as he starts from the centre then we've got aspect ratios because he's one to one and we
can fix that and if we fix an aspect ratio it will maintain that aspect ratio and if it's one to one
a rectangle that has an aspect ratio of 1 to 1 so is height and width of the same is a square.
Then we have position so we can modify its position on the screen and its size.
Well let's stop talking about that all options themselves and explore them.
Now if you click in drag with the rectangle Select Tool selected as you can see here we get ourselves
a rectangle and it has some modifications that we can do to it straightaway we can go to any of the
top sides or bottom all the corners and modify our selection.
The corner will drag it in and out from that perspective we can use the top selection to move it's taller
or shorter or one on the side to make it wider or narrower.
Now there are a couple of modification keys that we can use.
I'm going to clear my selection to start again with control shift and a.
Also available under select none.
So if I go ahead and start dragging out a now if I hold down Shift no matter what it aspect ratio currently
is.
You see here.
It's locked to a tiny rectangle.
I'll go ahead and hold shift at this point.
It'll branch out to a square.
I'm hoping E Yes it is.
And there we go.
Now if we've got some other aspect ratio perhaps twice the height as we've got here I can go ahead and
hold down Shift and it will maintain that.
But do make sure you click first before you hold down Shift.
Otherwise you're now using the modification tool on the Select Tool to add a selection rather than a
modification of the selection.
Confused.
Very easy to get confused when using a modifier key.
The does two things depending on if you've clicked something first or not and then a clear that selection
straw another rectangle roughly the right size as it was before.
Now if I click and start moving this but now hold down Shift it will maintain the aspect ratio that
it had previously.
If I hold down control when I'm starting the selection it will appear from the centre.
Now this I find more useful.
If we use the circle so let's go ahead and try that the circle select another hole down.
You can see I've started from the centre of our image.
Now I just hold down control it will now expand from the centre.
Or certainly where I clicked from which is close to the centre.
And if I hold down Shift as well it will lock itself to a perfect circle.
So if you need to actually draw a circle this is a great way of going about it.
Nakasi Over on the tool options we get a similar set of options as well.
Now there's one final way that I want to discuss modifying your selection in this particular lecture.
Although there are some more afterwards as well that will cover later on we have the select menu.
Now this is going to modify the selection directly.
We've got obviously the different types that we can pick from.
But here there's three and so I want to draw your attention to shrink grow and border the others.
In this particular section I personally don't find they work too well at this low resolution.
So let's focus on shrink if we go ahead and click on shrink it gives us the number of pixels that we
want to shrink it by.
And I could type in a safe for there and press.
Okay.
And we can see Strunk the selection accordingly.
And this can be great if you're trying to create a shadow or perhaps some other effects or even just
the selections to begin you need to make it smaller.
And it uniformly does it around the entire thing.
Now you can also make it larger by going to the next home which is grow.
And if we also grow by four pixels there's no guarantee it's going to go back to how it was before.
That's something important to remember especially if you're shape's not a regular shape like the circle
I've got in front of me.
The last one is incredibly useful if he wants an outline around your selection.
If you go to select and go to border what we can see is we can have a border around our selection and
a select set one pixel in this particular case and click okay.
And we can see that it's got a one pixel border starting from the outside inwards for our selection
and then you could grab something like the blend tool and have an outline like so and this is incredibly
useful if you've used perhaps the fuzzy selects all in order to select something like our sword which
I could do here.
I could go and open up the saw.
We've been working on.
I can zoom in because see here this is something I've been playing with.
I'm going to turn it off for the moment.
And what we can do is find a sword itself on the layers.
Remember that selections go over layers we can see here actually I have done if I turn everything off.
There we go.
I have actually done this I've created a border around my selection itself.
I can go ahead here and put a gradient in.
I'm going to create a new layer to do that on and I'm going to call it gradients or even sword gradients.
It's important to get your naming sword breeds.
And now I can draw a gradient across my sword like so.
And of course that could be amazing for a place holder or even just for an effect such as something
being selected like this sword here or a shadow in the background or in this case it didn't make a shadow
more of a colourful background for us sword.
Finally whilst were playing with the selection tools I want to have a quick look back at the circle
all the Elipse select or even the rectangle select all and have a closer look at what anti-aliasing
does and doesn't do.
I'm going to create a new file for this one and zoom in and if I go ahead and just go to my ellipse
tool and draw an ellipse or even a circle it doesn't matter.
Now if I go ahead and grab let's say the blend tool here and pull it across we see that areas outside
of that selection have been shaded in by undo that and let's use the fill bucket instead.
You'll see that it is has the same sort of effect.
So areas outside of that selection are being effected and that's what anti-aliasing does.
Now I can't just turn that off in the tool options.
Just can't do that.
I have to do a new selection so if I go to elipse select again and this time turn anti-aliasing off
and draw another circle roughly the same size as the previous one.
And now go ahead and use the gradient tool or the filled soul or even if we've got another tool.
Like the pencil tool we can fill that in precisely or even the paint brush.
If I was to go ahead and once again create another circle at anti-aliasing was turned off I need turned
on to make this example it's turned back on.
And this will make the edge softer essentially but it also applies to things like the paint brush tool
we see that that also has an effect because it goes outside of that selection tool.
If we were to go ahead and use the pencil tool which has a hard edge I don't know whether it would have
a similar effect.
It indeed does.
See you do need to watch out for that.
If you are using the selection tools to make a very precise selection because where we're working with
a low pixel count like we are you have to be careful that you're not modifying pixels outside of the
selection unless you really intended to.
Okay so we've learnt some more about selecting and in the next lecture I'll be asking you to use those
newfound abilities in a challenge and I will see you in that next lecture.